				Madras In Bar
				   Subtitles
Intro:
We hear, read and talk a lot of things about madras.
We share pics, videos and posts in whatsapp and twitter about it.
It’s a city of joy, sadness, antiques, beach and memories. But there is one thing which prevails here and it is not much popular in any part of India. 
It’s neither popular nor convenient.  We haven’t even given a thought about them.
Intro 2:
Madras means mixture of differences.  From caste, religion, language and many more.  But if we have any occasion at our home, we would at least give sweets to our neighbours.
For instance let’s take the area triplicane where on one side we have mosque, on the other side we have the church and on the other end you have a temple and the place stands as an example for unity in diversity.
 This unity is not just an identity of madras but is also a part of Madras.
Auto Driver:
On festive days if we are staying at home, we cannot earn anything. Only if we make it to work we can earn and feed our family. No one would give us a penny. Also the expenses and rates are going high nowadays.
Bus driver:
If we are working on festive days it means we are here to serve the public due to which we are unable to spend time without family.  In spite of that, we are accepting things and we are working to serve the society.
Rickshaw driver:
I am not sure of what I should do on festival days. I have to spend time with my family, and I have to ride rickshaw to earn. Only if I work I’ll get food for my family if not it is difficult at home.
Ever since we started recognising things, starting from rajinikanth being an Auto driver in the movie “Baasha”. Then in Mani Rathnam’s movies-  “Alaipayuthey” “Aazhutha ezhuthu” “Ok Kanmani” or most of his films will have at least one bus romance scene. From MGR’s movie “Rickshaw kaaran” until the first look poster of movie “Baairava” it’s all an emotion. 
We are always eager to have a holiday or a vacation in school or office, But has there ever been a day where the government bus had a holiday or vacation?
Be it DLF or Tidel park, most of us take a bus and we reach our destination at the earliest possible time by paying a very less cost. 
Even in times of state strike, Government buses are the safest means of transport. 
Bus driver:
On our bus route we would see a lot of renowned schools and we would have students from those school getting in and out from our bus. Even we want send our children to those schools, but we cannot afford to do it.
Auto driver:
I have been driving Auto for 19 years now, I love doing this job. My thought is just about doing this properly and earning money to run the family and spend on my children’s education.
Rickshaw Driver:
Then, there used to be a lot of rickshaws, now we do not have that much.
Majority of the School students travel by van or share autos these days.
25 years back I earned 8-9k by just doing the school pick up drops, now those kids are grown up and are successful in life.

Anu Voice : 
Irrespective of Sun or Rain, Our Autos are always safe.
Oops, I didn’t refer the corporate run Auto, I just told generally.
They may or may not switch on the meter that is secondary. Why? Shouldn’t they expect an increase in their earning?
Even today if we have to carry load from Parry’s corner and Sowcarpet, we seek the Rickshaw’s help. We don’t even know if we are walking or floating in the crowd there.

Did we ever took some time to read whatever is written behind the buses?
Or the words written behind the autos? Did we ever read those or did we bring those into implementation?
No right? Why?

Because the advertisements and posters block them from our sight.
Only in Madras, in a day a minimum of 45 lakhs people travel by bus.
During the festival days and peak hours, we have choice of choosing our buses. But few people doesn’t have a choice.

Do you know who they are? 
The bus driver and the bus conductor.
Irrespective of the crowd, whatever happens the bus conductor has to collect the tickets and close the stage for the day.
One more thing, we consider ourselves as smart people and try to travel without tickets in the bus.

That’s too much, because, you pay the penalty and along with you the conductor has to pay the penalty as well. Isn’t that unfair?

We make a mistake and someone else gets a punishment. It’s not right.

The bus stops which are within 2 km radius, or the connectivity which we have from one place to another we don’t find it elsewhere.
If we work extra at work, we expect an overtime pay but for them, every day is an overtime duty.
We heard about the bus driver who died while driving because of heart attack.
Bus Driver:
While at work, even if we get an emergency call we cannot leave the work and go immediately. We have to reach the terminus, and inform the time keeper and give a line message and then only can leave.
Anu:
Irrespective of having a ride that day, or a boom or fall in the petrol price, Auto drivers are always there to give us a ride
Be it the first ride for the day or the only ride for the day.

I will ask you something, the people who ride cycle Rickshaw, Have you seen them?
Most of them are above 70 years. 
An unclean lungi, a torn shirt and a towel on the shoulder, 
That’s their identity.

In the fast way of life, it’s a slow journey.
Though we pity the cycle rickshaw driver while gives all his energy to peddle the rickshaw, for most of us the ride is very convenient.
That’s also an Emotion.

Are you lost in the city? Or in an area you just know the name of the flat ?
No Problem, Ask our Auto Riding Brothers and sisters. They will guide you through.
The only transport which is available 24*7 at your doorstep is auto.
Recently Mr.Durai an auto driver became very popular in social media. That’s also a Madras Auto.
Rickshaw Driver:
Earlier even if we earned Rs.2 or Rs.5 it was sufficient now even if we earn Rs.50 or Rs.100 it is not enough.
Bus Driver:
If we have to start the bus at 5 am and try finishing the duty by 1pm, it never happens.
The duty timings are same as the timings which we had earlier in 1994 when I initially joined. But in today’s traffic we are unable to drive. If we plan to go home for lunch, we cannot do it. We can only go to some fast food center and eat or drink whatever is available at that point of time.
Auto Driver:
If we start the vehicle at 6am we ride auto till 8pm. Whenever we are hungry we will eat whatever we get. We can go to all star hotels if we have the facility, if we do not have the facility, food in the road side will make us happy.
Anu:
If we don’t have this BAR in Madras, a lot of us would face a lot of difficulties.
Do you know why?
Every morning we expect a kick start to begin our day, if not these we will not have an encouragement.
Whenever they get food they eat. Where ever they find place, they leave their vehicle there and sleep.
Gone or those days where we had to whistle for the vehicle, we are now using apps to book the vehicle.
The day Madras became Chennai a lot of identities started fading and slowly disappeared.
May be that’s what we term as development.
We hardly know how many of these people are struggling in life. Did we ever think that even they are humans and they have a life too?
We shall respect that or value that.

While we live the life by eating at home and working in a factory or corporate or industry, we don’t even know when they eat, where they sleep, when they ll sleep. 
But the minute we give a voice they are always ready with the vehicle to serve us. Did we ever think about this?
Madras has the longest running route for the Government MTC bus. Also, we don’t have buses based on the day, we have buses every minute.

We have debated and tweeted enough about the increase in ticket price and auto charges.
It is not their desire, it’s a business behind which a life in involved.
But we are not seeing that.
Even in the late nights we have bus service and auto service.
How much ever heavy the load is, when the cycle rickshaw driver says “Come dear, Lets go” while smoking a cigar.
Our only botheration would be how early we will reach our destination and nothing else at all. We don’t have to fear about anything else.

After shopping in Sowcarpet and Parry’s corner when we worry about carrying the luggage, the cycle rickshaw uncle helps us to take it safely.
The tricycle which helps in carrying load can be included in this as well.
The world is evolving and so is our transport, but few things remain the same.
The BAR is one of such things.
Even today we celebrate “Bus day” in college.
And for Ayudha pooja, the auto stand in the street will have a pooja.
We don’t even know how long this cycle rickshaw will exist.
It’s almost extinct.
We hardly see 1 or 2, which is rode by old people.
Though we don’t see it everywhere, we do find them in few important places where they still are ready to serve us.
Bus Driver:
At times, after finishing the duty in the night, we will not be able to go home.We have to stand somewhere on the road and ask for lift. 
Even if we have to travel in share auto, it is costly.
We don’t have to ability to pay more and go home.
Auto Thatha:
Earlier it was just few vehicles in the city. Now it is thousands of vehicles around so I have lost the interest to ride auto.

Auto uncle:
Earlier when we rode auto we earned income, now if we ride auto we are only incurring expenses.
Cycle rickshaw:
Earlier, during festive days we had people coming, now a days no one comes. It’s because the inflation is high.

Anu:
If it is a festive season, a lot of them would book their tickets to travel to their native. And the people of Madras if they plan to go out on a public holiday, these people work without spending time with their family to serve us.
This is our Madras in BAR.
This is from us to them.

